[Tutorial] Deploy Jfrog Artifactory with Helm (#3560)
ovh/docs: pages/platform/kubernetes-k8s/installing-artifactory/guide.en-gb.md

---
title: Deploying Artifactory on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster
slug: installing-artifactory
excerpt: 'Find out how to install Jfrog Artifactory on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster'
section: Tutorials
---

<style>
 pre {
     font-size: 14px;
 }
 pre.console {
   background-color: #300A24; 
   color: #ccc;
   font-family: monospace;
   padding: 5px;
   margin-bottom: 5px;
 }
 pre.console code {
   border: solid 0px transparent;
   font-family: monospace !important;
   font-size: 0.75em;
   color: #ccc;
 }
 .small {
     font-size: 0.75em;
 }
</style>

> **Last updated 12th October 2022**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Last updated 17th October 2022**
```

## Objective

> Jfrog Artifactory is one of the major solution to manage dependencies and packaged binaries. All this kind of objects are called _artefacts_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Jfrog Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/fr/artifactory/) is one of the major solution to manage dependencies and packaged binaries. All this kind of objects are called _artefacts_.
```

## Requirements 

- An OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster
- The Helm client installed and configured. You can follow OVHcloud tutorial: [Installing Helm on OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes](../installing-helm/).
- The `kubectl` client installed and configured. You can follow the OVHcloud tutorial: [Configuring kubectl on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster](../configuring-kubectl-on-an-ovh-managed-kubernetes-cluster/)

## Instructions

> You can find more detailed documentation about different ways to install Jfrog Artifactory in the official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Installing+Artifactory#InstallingArtifactory-HelmInstallation).
> The following tutorial explain how to install a single node installation, for more advanced installation (like HA see the [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Installing+Artifactory#InstallingArtifactory-HAInstallation)).

### Configure Helm to use the Jfrog Helm chart

In a terminal add the Jfrog Helm repository to your Helm installation:

```bash
$ helm repo add jfrog https://charts.jfrog.io
$ helm repo update
```

Output should be like this:

<pre class="console">
<code>

> $ helm repo add jfrog https://charts.jfrog.io

Reviewer: Mettre tout sur une seule ligne permet de ne pas avoir une ligne vide en trop :

```
<pre class="console"><code>$ helm repo add jfrog https://charts.jfrog.io
```

Author: Lors de ma dernière review par l'équipe doc ils m'ont demandé de mettre à la ligne du coup c'est ce que j'ai fait.
Mais je vais changé si maintenant il ne faut pas de retour à la ligne

Author: done

"jfrog" has been added to your repositories

$ helm repo update
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "apache-airflow" chart repository
...Successfully got an update from the "ingress-nginx" chart repository
...Successfully got an update from the "jfrog" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
</code>
</pre>

### Configure the master key and the join key

> At this stage, it's highly recommended that you configure your master key and join key, more information on these keys in the official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Managing+Keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, it is strongly recommended to configure your master key and your join key, more information on these keys in the official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Managing+Keys).
```

In a terminal, configure the master key as follows:

```bash
$ export MASTER_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

$ echo ${MASTER_KEY}
```

Output should be like this:

> <pre class="console">

Reviewer: supprimer le saut de ligne en trop en debut et en fin du code block stp.

Author: done

<code>
$ export MASTER_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

$ echo ${MASTER_KEY}
xxxxxxxxfffffffffffffxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxgggggggggggggxxxxxxxxxx
</code>
</pre>

Next, configure the join key as follows:

```bash
$ export JOIN_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

$ echo ${JOIN_KEY}
```

Output should be like this:

<pre class="console">
<code>
$ export JOIN_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

$ echo ${JOIN_KEY}
xxxxxxxxyyyyyyyyyyyyyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxyyyyyyyyyyyyxxxxxxxxxx
</code>
</pre>

### Install Jfrog Artifactory with Helm

First, you need to create the `artifactory` namespace:

```bash
$ kubectl create ns artifactory
```

Next, you can install Jfrog Artifactory with the following helm command:

```bash

> $ helm upgrade --install artifactory --set artifactory.masterKey=${MASTER_KEY} --set artifactory.joinKey=${JOIN_KEY} --namespace artifactory jfrog/artifactory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ helm upgrade --install artifactory \
--set artifactory.masterKey=${MASTER_KEY} \
--set artifactory.joinKey=${JOIN_KEY} \
--namespace artifactory jfrog/artifactory
```

plus visible, lisible d'afficher les parametres ligne par ligne

<pre class="console">
<code>
$ helm upgrade --install artifactory --set artifactory.masterKey=${MASTER_KEY} --set artifactory.joinKey=${JOIN_KEY} --namespace artifactory jfrog/artifactory

Release "artifactory" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: artifactory
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Oct 12 10:41:49 2022
NAMESPACE: artifactory
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
NOTES:
Congratulations. You have just deployed JFrog Artifactory!

1. Get the Artifactory URL by running these commands:

   NOTE: It may take a few minutes for the LoadBalancer IP to be available.
         You can watch the status of the service by running 'kubectl get svc --namespace artifactory -w artifactory-artifactory-nginx'
   export SERVICE_IP=$(kubectl get svc --namespace artifactory artifactory-artifactory-nginx -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
   echo http://$SERVICE_IP/

2. Open Artifactory in your browser
   Default credential for Artifactory:
   user: admin
   password: password
</code>
</pre>

Next, wait until the status of all Pods status are `Running` and _ready_ (i.e the number of Pods desired equals to the actual number in the `Ready` column):

```bash

> $ kubectl get pods -n artifactory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ kubectl get pods -n artifactory -w
```

```

Output should be like this:

<pre class="console">
<code>
$ kubectl get pods -n artifactory
NAME                                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
artifactory-0                                    1/1     Running   0          8m11s
artifactory-artifactory-nginx-7c556cb56b-x5wvm   1/1     Running   0          8m11s
artifactory-postgresql-0                         1/1     Running   0          8m11s
</code>
</pre>

### Test the fresh installed Jfrog artifactory

> Open the service URL in a browser and enter the default credentials `admin` and `password`:

Reviewer: Ne pas oublier de mettre les commandes pour que l'utilisateur puisse le faire, sans avoir à réfléchir :)

```
export SERVICE_IP=$(kubectl get svc --namespace artifactory artifactory-artifactory-nginx -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
echo http://$SERVICE_IP/
```

Open the service URL in a browser and enter the default credentials: `admin` for *Username* and `password` for *Password*:

Author: done : https://github.com/ovh/docs/pull/3560/commits/8ff8516d12901f6dc6f717efb9ff61b0490b6266

![Artifactory login page](images/artifactory-login-page.png){.thumbnail}

> [!primary]
>
> Do not forget to change the default password!

And that's it, you can start using your Jfrog Artifactory instance:

![Artifactory welcome page](images/artifactory-welcome-page.png){.thumbnail}

> After completing the configuration steps (see official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Repository+Management)), your Jfrog Artifactory is ready for use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing the configuration steps (see official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Repository+Management)), your Jfrog Artifactory is ready to use:
```

![Artifactory Maven repositories](images/artifactory-maven-repositories.png){.thumbnail}

### Uninstall Jfrog Artifactory

Like the other steps, the uninstallation is done with Helm command:

```bash
$ helm uninstall artifactory -n artifactory
```

Output should be like this:

> <pre class="console">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<pre class="console"><code>$ helm uninstall artifactory -n artifactory
```

<code>
$ helm uninstall artifactory -n artifactory

release "artifactory" uninstalled

> </code>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</code></pre>
```

---
title: Deploying Artifactory on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster
slug: installing-artifactory
excerpt: 'Find out how to install JFrog Artifactory on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster'
section: Tutorials
---

<style>
 pre {
     font-size: 14px;
 }
 pre.console {
   background-color: #300A24; 
   color: #ccc;
   font-family: monospace;
   padding: 5px;
   margin-bottom: 5px;
 }
 pre.console code {
   border: solid 0px transparent;
   font-family: monospace !important;
   font-size: 0.75em;
   color: #ccc;
 }
 .small {
     font-size: 0.75em;
 }
</style>

**Last updated 17th October 2022**

## Objective

> [Jfrog Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/fr/artifactory/) is one of the major solution to manage dependencies and packaged binaries. All this kind of objects are called _artefacts_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[JFrog Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/fr/artifactory/) is one of the major solution to manage dependencies and packaged binaries. All this kind of objects are called _artefacts_.
```

---
title: Deploying Artifactory on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster
slug: installing-artifactory

> excerpt: 'Find out how to install Jfrog Artifactory on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
excerpt: 'Find out how to install JFrog Artifactory on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster'
```

section: Tutorials
---

<style>
 pre {
     font-size: 14px;
 }
 pre.console {
   background-color: #300A24; 
   color: #ccc;
   font-family: monospace;
   padding: 5px;
   margin-bottom: 5px;
 }
 pre.console code {
   border: solid 0px transparent;
   font-family: monospace !important;
   font-size: 0.75em;
   color: #ccc;
 }
 .small {
     font-size: 0.75em;
 }
</style>

**Last updated 17th October 2022**

## Objective

[Jfrog Artifactory](https://jfrog.com/fr/artifactory/) is one of the major solution to manage dependencies and packaged binaries. All this kind of objects are called _artefacts_.

## Requirements 

- An OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster
- The Helm client installed and configured. You can follow OVHcloud tutorial: [Installing Helm on OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes](../installing-helm/).
- The `kubectl` client installed and configured. You can follow the OVHcloud tutorial: [Configuring kubectl on an OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster](../configuring-kubectl-on-an-ovh-managed-kubernetes-cluster/)

## Instructions

> > You can find more detailed documentation about different ways to install Jfrog Artifactory in the official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Installing+Artifactory#InstallingArtifactory-HelmInstallation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You can find more detailed documentation about different ways to install JFrog Artifactory in the official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Installing+Artifactory#InstallingArtifactory-HelmInstallation).
```

> The following tutorial explain how to install a single node installation, for more advanced installation (like HA see the [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Installing+Artifactory#InstallingArtifactory-HAInstallation)).

> ### Configure Helm to use the Jfrog Helm chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure Helm to use the JFrog Helm chart
```

> In a terminal add the Jfrog Helm repository to your Helm installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a terminal add the JFrog Helm repository to your Helm installation:
```

Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
</code></pre>

### Configure the master key and the join key

At this point, it is strongly recommended to configure your master key and your join key, more information on these keys in the official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Managing+Keys).

In a terminal, configure the master key as follows:

```bash
$ export MASTER_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

$ echo ${MASTER_KEY}
```

Output should be like this:

<pre class="console">
<code>$ export MASTER_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)
WARNING: can't open config file: /usr/local/etc/openssl/openssl.cnf

$ echo ${MASTER_KEY}
xxxxxxxxfffffffffffffxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxgggggggggggggxxxxxxxxxx
</code></pre>

Next, configure the join key as follows:

```bash
$ export JOIN_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)

$ echo ${JOIN_KEY}
```

Output should be like this:

<pre class="console">
<code>$ export JOIN_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)
WARNING: can't open config file: /usr/local/etc/openssl/openssl.cnf

$ echo ${JOIN_KEY}
xxxxxxxxyyyyyyyyyyyyyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxyyyyyyyyyyyyxxxxxxxxxx
</code></pre>

> [!info]
>
> The two warning messages are not important.

> ### Install Jfrog Artifactory with Helm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install JFrog Artifactory with Helm
```

First, you need to create the `artifactory` namespace:

```bash
$ kubectl create ns artifactory
```

> Next, you can install Jfrog Artifactory with the following helm command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you can install JFrog Artifactory with the following Helm command:
```

```bash
$ helm upgrade --install artifactory \
--set artifactory.masterKey=${MASTER_KEY} \
--set artifactory.joinKey=${JOIN_KEY} \
--namespace artifactory jfrog/artifactory
```
Output should be like this:

<pre class="console">

> <code>$ helm upgrade --install artifactory --set artifactory.masterKey=${MASTER_KEY} --set artifactory.joinKey=${JOIN_KEY} --namespace artifactory jfrog/artifactory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<code>$ helm upgrade --install artifactory \
--set artifactory.masterKey=${MASTER_KEY} \
--set artifactory.joinKey=${JOIN_KEY} \
--namespace artifactory jfrog/artifactory
```

Release "artifactory" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: artifactory
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed Oct 12 10:41:49 2022
NAMESPACE: artifactory
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
NOTES:
Congratulations. You have just deployed JFrog Artifactory!

1. Get the Artifactory URL by running these commands:

   NOTE: It may take a few minutes for the LoadBalancer IP to be available.
         You can watch the status of the service by running 'kubectl get svc --namespace artifactory -w artifactory-artifactory-nginx'
   export SERVICE_IP=$(kubectl get svc --namespace artifactory artifactory-artifactory-nginx -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
   echo http://$SERVICE_IP/

2. Open Artifactory in your browser
   Default credential for Artifactory:
   user: admin
   password: password
</code></pre>

Next, wait until the status of all Pods status are `Running` and _ready_ (i.e the number of Pods desired equals to the actual number in the `Ready` column):

```bash
$ kubectl get pods -n artifactory -w
```

Output should be like this:

<pre class="console">

> <code>$ kubectl get pods -n artifactory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<code>$ kubectl get pods -n artifactory -w
```

NAME                                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
artifactory-0                                    1/1     Running   0          8m11s
artifactory-artifactory-nginx-7c556cb56b-x5wvm   1/1     Running   0          8m11s
artifactory-postgresql-0                         1/1     Running   0          8m11s
</code></pre>

> ### Test the fresh installed Jfrog artifactory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Test the fresh installed JFrog artifactory
```

Get the URL of the administration console:

```
export SERVICE_IP=$(kubectl get svc --namespace artifactory artifactory-artifactory-nginx -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
echo http://$SERVICE_IP/
```

Open the service URL in a browser and enter the default credentials: `admin` for *Username* and `password` for *Password*:

> Open the service URL in a browser and enter the default credentials `admin` and `password`:

Reviewer: cette phrase est en trop du coup, non ?

Author: supprimée : https://github.com/ovh/docs/pull/3560/commits/5e9561da31c47d4179398425eaedf93596a616f6

![Artifactory login page](images/artifactory-login-page.png){.thumbnail}

> [!primary]
>
> Do not forget to change the default password!

> And that's it, you can start using your Jfrog Artifactory instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that's it, you can start using your JFrog Artifactory instance:
```

![Artifactory welcome page](images/artifactory-welcome-page.png){.thumbnail}

> After completing the configuration steps (see official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Repository+Management)), your Jfrog Artifactory is ready to use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing the configuration steps (see official [documentation](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/display/JFROG/Repository+Management)), your JFrog Artifactory is ready to use:
```

![Artifactory Maven repositories](images/artifactory-maven-repositories.png){.thumbnail}

> ### Uninstall Jfrog Artifactory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Uninstall JFrog Artifactory
```

Like the other steps, the uninstallation is done with Helm command:

```bash
$ helm uninstall artifactory -n artifactory
```

Output should be like this:

<pre class="console"><code>$ helm uninstall artifactory -n artifactory
<code>$ helm uninstall artifactory -n artifactory

release "artifactory" uninstalled
</code></pre>

Then delete the `artifactory` namespace:

```bash
$ kubectl delete ns artifactory
```
## Go further

> For more details on how to use the Jfrog Artifactory see the official [documentations](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/site/documentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on how to use the JFrog Artifactory see the official [documentations](https://www.jfrog.com/confluence/site/documentation).
```

<pre class="console">
<code>$ export JOIN_KEY=$(openssl rand -hex 32)
WARNING: can't open config file: /usr/local/etc/openssl/openssl.cnf

$ echo ${JOIN_KEY}
xxxxxxxxyyyyyyyyyyyyyxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxyyyyyyyyyyyyxxxxxxxxxx
</code></pre>

> [!info]
>

> > The two warning messages are not important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The two warning messages are not important and have no impact.
```
